README.md, before:

XML Streaming for Scala (xs4s) [![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.scalawilliam/xs4s-core_2.13.svg)](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/com.scalawilliam/xs4s-core_2.13) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ScalaWilliam/xs4s.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ScalaWilliam/xs4s)
====

Ths library makes it easy for you to consume multi-gigabyte XML files in a streaming fashion - ie read and process a 4GB Wikipedia XML file,
straight from the web, without running out of memory.

It consumes events from the standard XML API (https://github.com/FasterXML/woodstox),
gradually forms a partial tree, and based on a user-supplied function ("query"), it will 
materialise that partial tree into a full tree, which will return to the user.

FS2 compatibility is included (Functional Streams for Scala).

Using the library
======

Add the following to your build.sbt:

```sbt
scalaVersion := "2.13.2"

libraryDependencies += "com.scalawilliam" %% "xs4s-core" % "0.7"
libraryDependencies += "com.scalawilliam" %% "xs4s-fs2" % "0.7"

// optionally, if you want to use a snapshot build.
// resolvers += "Sonatype OSS Snapshots" at "https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots"
```

Then, you can implement functions such as the following ([BriefFS2Example](example/src/main/scala/xs4s/example/brief/BriefFS2Example.scala) - note the explicit types are for clarity):

```scala
/**
  *
  * @param byteStream Could be, for example, fs2.io.readInputStream(inputStream)
  * @param blocker obtained with Blocker[IO]
  */
def extractAnchorTexts(byteStream: Stream[IO, Byte], blocker: Blocker)(
    implicit cs: ContextShift[IO]): Stream[IO, String] = {

  /** extract all elements called 'anchor' **/
  val anchorElementExtractor: XmlElementExtractor[Elem] =
    XmlElementExtractor.filterElementsByName("anchor")

  /** Turn into XMLEvent */
  val xmlEventStream: Stream[IO, XMLEvent] =
    byteStream.through(byteStreamToXmlEventStream(blocker))

  /** Collect all the anchors as [[scala.xml.Elem]] */
  val anchorElements: Stream[IO, Elem] =
    xmlEventStream.through(anchorElementExtractor.toFs2PipeThrowError)


  /** And finally extract the text contents for each Elem */
  anchorElements.map(_.text)
}
```

Alternatively, we have a plain-Scala API, especially where you have legacy Java interaction, or you feel uncomfortable with pure FP for now: [BriefPlainScalaExample](example/src/main/scala/xs4s/example/brief/BriefPlainScalaExample.scala).:

```scala
def extractAnchorTexts(sourceFile: File): Unit = {
  val anchorElementExtractor: XmlElementExtractor[Elem] =
    XmlElementExtractor.filterElementsByName("anchor")
  val xmlEventReader = XMLStream.fromFile(sourceFile)
  try {
    val elements: Iterator[Elem] =
      xmlEventReader.extractWith(anchorElementExtractor)
    val text: Iterator[String] = elements.map(_.text)
    text.foreach(println)
  } finally xmlEventReader.close()
}
``` 

Example
======

The main example is in [FindMostPopularWikipediaKeywordsFs2App](example/src/main/scala/xs4s/example/FindMostPopularWikipediaKeywordsFs2App.scala).
There is also a plain Scala example (using `Iterator`) in [FindMostPopularWikipediaKeywordsPlainScalaApp](example/src/main/scala/xs4s/example/FindMostPopularWikipediaKeywordsPlainScalaApp.scala).

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/ScalaWilliam/xs4s.git
$ sbt "examples/runMain xs4s.example.FindMostPopularWikipediaKeywordsFs2App" 
$ sbt "examples/runMain xs4s.example.FindMostPopularWikipediaKeywordsPlainScalaApp" 
```

The code is lightweight, with ElementBuilder being the heaviest code as it converts
StAX events into Scala XML classes.

This can consume 100MB files or 4GB files without any problems. And it does it fast. It converts XML streams into Scala XML trees on demand, which you can then query from.

Authors & Contributors
======
- @ScalaWilliam <https://www.scalawilliam.com/>
- @stettix <http://www.janvsmachine.net/>

Commit message:

LoadStringSuite - show one important example that we provide

README.md, after:

XML Streaming for Scala (xs4s) [![Maven Central](https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.scalawilliam/xs4s-core_2.13.svg)](https://maven-badges.herokuapp.com/maven-central/com.scalawilliam/xs4s-core_2.13) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ScalaWilliam/xs4s.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ScalaWilliam/xs4s)
====

Ths library makes it easy for you to consume multi-gigabyte XML files in a streaming fashion - ie read and process a 4GB Wikipedia XML file,
straight from the web, without running out of memory.

It consumes events from the standard XML API (https://github.com/FasterXML/woodstox),
gradually forms a partial tree, and based on a user-supplied function ("query"), it will 
materialise that partial tree into a full tree, which will return to the user.

FS2 compatibility is included (Functional Streams for Scala).

xs4s also offers a replacement of sclaa.xml.XML.load functions, for example, the following assertion passes:

```scala
assert(xs4s.XML.loadString("<test/>") == <test/>)
```

Using the library
======

Add the following to your build.sbt:

```sbt
scalaVersion := "2.13.2"

libraryDependencies += "com.scalawilliam" %% "xs4s-core" % "0.7"
libraryDependencies += "com.scalawilliam" %% "xs4s-fs2" % "0.7"

// optionally, if you want to use a snapshot build.
// resolvers += "Sonatype OSS Snapshots" at "https://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots"
```

Then, you can implement functions such as the following ([BriefFS2Example](example/src/main/scala/xs4s/example/brief/BriefFS2Example.scala) - note the explicit types are for clarity):

```scala
/**
  *
  * @param byteStream Could be, for example, fs2.io.readInputStream(inputStream)
  * @param blocker obtained with Blocker[IO]
  */
def extractAnchorTexts(byteStream: Stream[IO, Byte], blocker: Blocker)(
    implicit cs: ContextShift[IO]): Stream[IO, String] = {

  /** extract all elements called 'anchor' **/
  val anchorElementExtractor: XmlElementExtractor[Elem] =
    XmlElementExtractor.filterElementsByName("anchor")

  /** Turn into XMLEvent */
  val xmlEventStream: Stream[IO, XMLEvent] =
    byteStream.through(byteStreamToXmlEventStream(blocker))

  /** Collect all the anchors as [[scala.xml.Elem]] */
  val anchorElements: Stream[IO, Elem] =
    xmlEventStream.through(anchorElementExtractor.toFs2PipeThrowError)


  /** And finally extract the text contents for each Elem */
  anchorElements.map(_.text)
}
```

Alternatively, we have a plain-Scala API, especially where you have legacy Java interaction, or you feel uncomfortable with pure FP for now: [BriefPlainScalaExample](example/src/main/scala/xs4s/example/brief/BriefPlainScalaExample.scala).:

```scala
def extractAnchorTexts(sourceFile: File): Unit = {
  val anchorElementExtractor: XmlElementExtractor[Elem] =
    XmlElementExtractor.filterElementsByName("anchor")
  val xmlEventReader = XMLStream.fromFile(sourceFile)
  try {
    val elements: Iterator[Elem] =
      xmlEventReader.extractWith(anchorElementExtractor)
    val text: Iterator[String] = elements.map(_.text)
    text.foreach(println)
  } finally xmlEventReader.close()
}
``` 

Example
======

The main example is in [FindMostPopularWikipediaKeywordsFs2App](example/src/main/scala/xs4s/example/FindMostPopularWikipediaKeywordsFs2App.scala).
There is also a plain Scala example (using `Iterator`) in [FindMostPopularWikipediaKeywordsPlainScalaApp](example/src/main/scala/xs4s/example/FindMostPopularWikipediaKeywordsPlainScalaApp.scala).

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/ScalaWilliam/xs4s.git
$ sbt "examples/runMain xs4s.example.FindMostPopularWikipediaKeywordsFs2App" 
$ sbt "examples/runMain xs4s.example.FindMostPopularWikipediaKeywordsPlainScalaApp" 
```

The code is lightweight, with ElementBuilder being the heaviest code as it converts
StAX events into Scala XML classes.

This can consume 100MB files or 4GB files without any problems. And it does it fast. It converts XML streams into Scala XML trees on demand, which you can then query from.

Authors & Contributors
======
- @ScalaWilliam <https://www.scalawilliam.com/>
- @stettix <http://www.janvsmachine.net/>
